---
layout: post
title: "network."
date: 2016-09-22
backgrounds:
    - http://feelgrafix.com/data/background/background-9.jpg
thumb: http://mblogthumb4.phinf.naver.net/20160315_111/mkhjsk_1458023052522xOxyW_GIF/015.gif?type=w2
categories: Network
tags: Network
---
네트워크 수업 정리

네트워크의 기본 구성.
1. Node
정보를 저장하고 처리.
통신(communication)에 참여하는 개체.

2. Link
node를 연결하는 물리적인 매개체.
node들이 연결되어 있는 방식은 topology라고 한다.

# 네트워크의 중요한 부분은 자원을 어떻게 공유하는가이다.
두 가지의 concept 가 존재하는데, 1. switching 2. Multiplexing 이다.

## **switching**은
router나 switch같은 장비를 활용하여 노드들을 연결하는 것이다.
!(image)[/asset/pic1.png]
위와 같이 direct하게 연결하는 경우에는 O(N2)의 link가 필요하기 때문에 비용이 크다. 따라서 switch를 통해 연결해주자는 것이다.

switching에는 두 가지 방법이 존재하는데,
1. Circuit Switching
2. Packet Swiching
이다.

각각 장단점이 존재한다.


WHAT’S NEXT: CLOUD COMPUTING

of players. In this case, we have the computing industry,
which has become increasingly involved in integrating
computation and communication; the telephone and
cable operators, which recognize the market for carrying
all sorts of data, not just voice and television; and, perhaps
most importantly, the many entrepreneurs creating
new Internet-based applications and services such
as voice over IP (VOIP), online games, virtual worlds,
search services, content hosting, electronic commerce,
and so on. It’s noteworthy that one of today’s
biggest names in “cloud computing,” Amazon.com,
achieved that position by first adopting Internet technologies
to sell consumer products such as books and
then making their computing infrastructure available to
others as a service over the network.
A few years ago, a reasonable goal for networking might
have been to provide network access to every home, but in
developed countries at least that process is now far along. Ubiquitous
networking now includes getting access from anywhere,
including on planes and trains, and on an increasingly wide range
of devices. Whereas the Internet largely evolved in an era of fixed mainframe
and then personal computers, today the set of devices to be connected
together includes mobile phones and even smaller devices such as
sensors (which might also be mobile). Thus, it seems clear that the Internet will
have to continue to scale to support several orders of magnitude more devices than
today and that many of these devices will be mobile, perhaps intermittently connected
over wireless links of highly variable quality. At the same time, these devices
will be connected to large data centers—filled with tens of thousands of processors
and many petabytes of storage—that will store and analyze the data being generated,
all with the hope of enabling even more powerful applications that help us
navigate our daily lives. And, the devices that we carry are often just a means of
accessing “the cloud”—the amorphous set of machines that store and process our
documents, photos, data, social networks, etc., which we expect to be able to access
from anywhere.